# Paradata


As mentioned in my Process Notes, for this module, I was inspired by Andy Warhol’s quote “I want to be a machine,” and so therefor, I fulfilled his wish and made him into one. Specifically, I made a twitter bot who would act as the “voice” of Andy Warhol, by generating random quotes derived from the words of actual quotes that he once spoke. 

Just like his artwork, his quotes are a reflection of his thoughts, and often address his observations of pop culture and the art world. Sometime he praises this lifestyle, and sometimes he condemns it, and some of his other quotes are just pain bizarre (See Object Files for full list of quotes.) Given the “weirdness” of some of his quotes, and given that many follow a similar theme, it would be easy to splice different words together and have them make some sort of sense. Nevertheless, the quotes that my bot would produce would still end up being very odd. 

Now I know that in this module, it was intended for us to transfer our object into a digital world and develop some sort of interactive interface. While I know that many people have taken the option of creating a “video game” of sorts, I did not believe that this would work as well for my particular topic. A twitter bot suits my topic more because it gives my topic new meaning and it still has the potential to be interactive in more than one way. Most importantly, as we discussed in class, it is an immersive experience, and it does so it a way that is unconventional.

Andy Warhol’s work was all about the process behind it and how it was created rather than the final piece. His Brillo Soap Pad Boxes sculpture is not regarded as art because of the skill involved and the overall aesthetic. After all, it was produced by screen printing a commercial packaging design that had already been created. This sculpture, along with the rest of his works, are considered art because of what they represent and the critique they are making, and how Andy uses his process to exemplify this critique.  His Brillo Boxes, for example, are meant as a critique about consumer society. It is all about making the viewer reflect upon the art, and making them think differently. 

I wanted to have my twitter bot function in the same way. Not only is the bot physically interactive through the twitter replies that I coded in, by the obscure quotes that it generates are intended to make the reader think and contemplate the tweet, themselves, and society as a whole. While the tweets are computer generated gibberish created from randomized words, they can still have a profound effect on the reader, depending on how they interpret the message. The result should be a contemplative immersive experience, rather than the traditional visual and auditory immersive experience seen in video games.

In “Teaching History in an Age of Pervasive Computing: The Case for Games in the High School and Undergraduate Classroom” by Kee and Graham (2014), a quote was made about how students use technology nowadays. It reads: “Students interact with this technology less like a tool (something to get the job done) and more like a musical instrument (something with which to be creative)” (Kee, Graham: 2014). In my project, I did just this. I used technology to create an interactive experience that is NOT used as tool just to accomplish a job, but as a creative device, making the quotes that are generated art themselves (or at least “art” in Andy Warhol terms.”

It is also stated in that article that “everything about how to manipulate the complex algorithms that model the simulation” (Kee, Graham: 2014) is what makes history games informative and interactive. Similarly, while there are no visuals incorporated in my twitter bot, and the viewer who is interacting with it is very limited in what they can do, it is the underlying code that produces the essence of this project.

In summary, I wanted to create a twitter bot that, on the surface, appeared to be the “voice of Andy Warhol” and simply pump out generative text based off of his original quotes. Deeper down though, this account offers an immersive, interactive, and introspective experience as the viewer may interpret and reflect upon the quotes that were created. Like Andy Warhol’s art, the value of this piece is not necessarily in its aesthetic quality, (similarly to the unimportance of graphics in video games), the value of this project is in the effect of the quotes, and how they make the reader think. 
