# Process Notes


### Choosing My Course of Action
I had some difficulty deciding what to do for third module. My object (Andy Warhol’s Brillo Soap Pad Boxes sculpture) has a very limited history itself, and so incorporating the object and its direct history into a piece of interactive media would be challenging. The object does, however, tell a larger story about the context in which it was created, that is, its place in the pop art world, its status as a fac simile art piece, and the mindset of its creator.  Given that I have already discussed my object in terms of its role as a fac simile, its role as a piece of art, and its status as “stolen” property, I wanted to take this opportunity to dive into the role and character of Andy Warhol, because, in a sense, his art and the artistic decisions he makes along the way are reflective of his thinking. This course of action would also allowing me to step away from my faulty 3D model from the first two modules, and give me the opportunity to try something different. 

I decided to make a twitter bot for Module 3 as I thought that this format would work best for my topic. It was actually a quote of Andy Warhol’s, which I had discovered earlier on and that had also been included in one of our readings, which served as my inspiration for my twitter bot and how it would function. The quote reads “The reason I'm painting this way is that I want to be a machine, and I feel that whatever I do and do machine-like is what I want to do.”  I think that most forms of technology can be considered a machine in some way, both physically and digitally, in that they have several components with specific functions which work together to perform a task. Considering this fact, and the quote that was mentioned earlier, I thought that I would fulfill Andy Warhol’s wish, and make him a machine through the means of a twitter bot, using cheapbotsdonequick.com. 

### Setting up my Twitter bot 

Twitter Bot Link -> https://twitter.com/i_am_andybot 
Upon creating the visual set up of my twitter profile, I selected a digital portrait of Andy Warhol (a free-for-use image I found online – see bibliography for credit) that looked like the pop art portraits that he created. I thought an image like this one would be more fitting for this twitter bot as Warhol is no longer represented as himself, but is being represented as a digital and mechanized version of himself. For the banner picture, I simply typed out “I want to be a machine…” in GitHub and screenshot the text because it thought the plain text font looked cool and was fitting because it represents the mechanized inner working of the internal coding. 



### An Adventure in Coding

I contemplated for a while as to how I would go about creating my twitter bot, as I am restricted by my absolute lack of coding skills. Hypothetically, I thought that it would be cool to have the bot take an image (either sent to the account or pre-coded) and “Warholify it,” that is, posterize it and add basic colours so that in the end, it would come out looking like many of Warhol’s famous pop art portraits. Of course, I had absolutely no idea how to do this, nor do I know if it’s even possible. Tutorials for coding bots are scattered and it is a bit hard to track down ones that I could understand. I could not find any tutorials that fit this idea and most basic twitter bot coding tutorials were text based anyways, so I felt as though it was best that I stick to a simpler model. 
In order to “mechanize” the character of Any Warhol, I decided to code my twitter bot so that it acted as an “Andy Warhol quote simulator.” Andy Warhol was known to have done and said some very odd things, so I decided to accumulate a collection of some of his most notable quotes, which I would then break down to produce jumbled sentences.  I found a number of quotes online (quotes listed in Object Files) and I proceeded to selecting some of the most interesting and unique words, and dividing them into three sections, starting with a noun, which could then be mixed and matched into somewhat comprehensible sentences (see Object Files> broken down quotes).

In order to do this I searched for some JSON tutorials that could help me code my mix-and-match quote generator. These tutorials -> http://www.crystalcodepalace.com/traceryTut.html https://github.com/codekitchensd/2016-03-24-twitterbots proved to be very helpful especially for the instructions regarding syntax rules, and how to implement modifiers and nested words. This was especially helpful considering that not all of my words worked perfectly together. I decided the easiest way to do this, or at least the best way I could wrap my head around the coding, was to create two “main symbols” (#noun# and #second#) that would be drawn upon in the origin code. Within those 2 subsequent symbols, I placed a number of nested words that worked with only a handful of the main symbols (Aone, Atwo, Bone, Btwo, etc.) This way, the grammar would make sense, depending on which original symbol was randomly selected (ex: Art #Aone#","Art #Athree#","It #Aone#.) After nesting a number of variation and trying it out, I came up with a code that generates grammatically correct sentences most of the time, although there are still so tiny issues that could be fixed. I’ll admit that trying to wrap my head around this was very difficult. (Final codes are listed in the Object Files.)

Producing a code for the replying mechanism in my twitter bot was very import as that would ensure a more interactive and personal experience with the bot. I know I wanted to include some potential questions and answers that would serve to educate the twitter audience a little bit more regarding Andy Warhol. Some of the questions I coded in included “who is Andy Warhol?”, “can I see some of your art?” and “what is pop art?”. The answers consist of links to some education resources. I also wanted to include an option in which someone could request a “personalized” quote, in which the code would revert back to the origin code and spit out a new word combination. The questions include “hey Andy, can I have my very own quote?" and "can I have another?" and the answers will be "Sure, here you go: #origin#" and "If you say so... #origin#". Finally, I wanted to include a few snarky and interesting responses to some simple questions as I feel like it represents Andy’s character a bit more, and it also humanizes the bot in a way. Questions include “hello” and “who are you?.” Respective answers include "Hello, why are you trying to talk to a machine?", “I am what I have always wanted to be" and "I am the voice of Andy Warhol."

Coding this portion was a little different than the main code and I was a bit confused as to what would and would not work. I read the instructions numerous times but any time I thought I understood it and I would make a change to the code, I would receive an error message below. I could not figure out which part of the passage would go after the colon, and the function of the “.””:” symbols were confusing me. Furthermore, I could not find tutorials explaining how to code replies, only instructions on how to code the main Tracery JSON. I ended up asking my dad, who has experience working with Java Script, to help understand what the program required me to do. We figured it out quite quickly, which allowed me to easily create questions and answers with no more errors. It was quite simple really, the question went on one side of the colon and the response went on the other side. I repeated this process for all of my questions and replies. 


### Final Thoughts

Over all, I am quite proud of what I was able to accomplish with no initial experience in coding. The twitter bot @i_am_andybot is set to tweet a newly generated quote every 6 hours AND will respond to specifically worded tweets, allowing for more of a directly interactive experience. More thoughts behind the purpose of this bot and what I was trying to achieve can be found in my Paradata. 

### Other Twitter Bot Coding Tutorials That I Used and/or Suggest:

https://github.com/derekahmedzai/cheapbotsdonequick
https://github.com/shawngraham/hist3812w18/wiki/How-do-I-build-a-twitterbot%3F
https://github.com/codekitchensd/2016-03-24-twitterbots 


